# Location-Prediction-using-Tweets

#### Determining the location (Seattle or Boston) with the help of a tweet. We followed two approaches for the same namely:

#### 1. This is the most conventional method of assigning a class to the target variable (Boston – 0, Seattle - 1). For cleaning of the data, we tokenized the data, removed the stop words and performed stemming to get the root of every word. Then, we used a count vectorizer which counts the occurrences of a word and then we generated the respective Term Frequency and Inverse Document Frequency scores (TFIDF).  Then we performed dimensionality reduction using SVD as it deals with sparse matrices better. Then we built three classification models on the final data namely – SVM, Logistic Regression and Naïve Bayes and compared the respective classification metrics and reported the best model.

#### 2. This approach is a more detailed one. We created a knowledge base which would have links of each city that we are trying to predict, and this knowledge base would have all the named entities (any city or country or landmarks). Then we created a graph for all the links that connect to an individual city. This knowledge base is generated by web scraping all the Wikipedia pages of every city or country. After this we generated scores like the Tversky Index and Overlapping scores based on the geo-tweet and the graph. Finally, with all these cities and the scores we generate a final dataframe of latitude, longitude and scores and pass it to an SVM model which treats it as a classification task.

#### The second approach is a better one as it can be used to predict the exact latitude and longitude according to the content of the tweets.

